README.md, before:

# oneAPI Collective Communications Library (oneCCL) <!-- omit in toc --> <img align="right" width="200" height="100" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/uxlfoundation/artwork/e98f1a7a3d305c582d02c5f532e41487b710d470/foundation/uxl-foundation-logo-horizontal-color.svg">

[![OpenSSF Scorecard](https://api.scorecard.dev/projects/github.com/oneapi-src/oneCCL/badge)](https://scorecard.dev/viewer/?uri=github.com/oneapi-src/oneCCL)
[Installation](#installation)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Usage](#usage)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Release Notes](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/release-notes/oneapi-collective-communication-library-ccl-release-notes.html)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Documentation](https://oneapi-src.github.io/oneCCL/)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[How to Contribute](CONTRIBUTING.md)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[License](LICENSE)

oneAPI Collective Communications Library (oneCCL) provides an efficient implementation of communication patterns used in deep learning.

oneCCL is integrated into:
* [Horovod\*](https://github.com/horovod/horovod) (distributed training framework). Refer to [Horovod with oneCCL](https://github.com/horovod/horovod/blob/master/docs/oneccl.rst) for details.
* [PyTorch\*](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch) (machine learning framework). Refer to [PyTorch bindings for oneCCL](https://github.com/intel/torch-ccl) for details.

oneCCL is governed by the [UXL Foundation](http://www.uxlfoundation.org) and is an implementation of the [oneAPI specification](https://spec.oneapi.io).

## Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Launching Example Application](#launching-example-application)
    - [Using external MPI](#using-external-mpi)
  - [Setting workers affinity](#setting-workers-affinity)
    - [Automatic setup](#automatic-setup)
    - [Explicit setup](#explicit-setup)
  - [Using oneCCL package from CMake](#using-oneccl-package-from-cmake)
    - [oneCCLConfig files generation](#onecclconfig-files-generation)
- [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)
  - [Blog Posts](#blog-posts)
  - [Workshop Materials](#workshop-materials)

## Prerequisites 

See [System Requirements](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/system-requirements/oneapi-collective-communication-library-system-requirements.html) to learn about hardware and software requirements before getting started with oneCCL.

## Installation

General installation scenario:

```
cd oneCCL
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make -j install
```

If you need a clean build, create a new build directory and invoke `cmake` within it.

You can also do the following during installation:
- [Specify installation directory](INSTALL.md#specify-installation-directory)
- [Specify the compiler](INSTALL.md#specify-the-compiler)
- [Specify `SYCL` cross-platform abstraction level](INSTALL.md#specify-sycl-cross-platform-abstraction-level)
- [Specify the build type](INSTALL.md#specify-the-build-type)
- [Enable `make` verbose output](INSTALL.md#enable-make-verbose-output)

## Usage

### Launching Example Application

Use the command:
```bash
$ source <install_dir>/env/setvars.sh
$ mpirun -n 2 <install_dir>/examples/benchmark/benchmark
```

#### Using external mpi

The ccl-bundled-mpi flag in vars.sh can take values "yes" or "no" to control if bundled Intel MPI should be used or not. Current default is "yes", which means that oneCCL temporarily overrides the mpi implementation in use.

In order to suppress the behavior and use user-supplied or system-default mpi use the following command *instead* of sourcing `setvars.sh`:

```bash
$ source <install_dir>/env/vars.sh --ccl-bundled-mpi=no
```

The mpi implementation will not be overridden. Please note that, in this case, user needs to assure the system finds all required mpi-related binaries.

### Setting workers affinity

There are two ways to set worker threads (workers) affinity: [automatically](#setting-affinity-automatically) and [explicitly](#setting-affinity-explicitly).

#### Automatic setup

1. Set the `CCL_WORKER_COUNT` environment variable with the desired number of workers per process.
2. Set the `CCL_WORKER_AFFINITY` environment variable with the value `auto`.

Example:
```
export CCL_WORKER_COUNT=4
export CCL_WORKER_AFFINITY=auto
```
With the variables above, oneCCL will create four workers per process and the pinning will depend from process launcher.

If an application has been launched using `mpirun` that is provided by oneCCL distribution package then workers will be automatically pinned to the last four cores available for the launched process. The exact IDs of CPU cores can be controlled by `mpirun` parameters.

Otherwise, workers will be automatically pinned to the last four cores available on the node.

---

#### Explicit setup

1. Set the `CCL_WORKER_COUNT` environment variable with the desired number of workers per process.
2. Set the `CCL_WORKER_AFFINITY` environment variable with the IDs of cores to pin local workers.

Example:
```
export CCL_WORKER_COUNT=4
export CCL_WORKER_AFFINITY=3,4,5,6
```
With the variables above, oneCCL will create four workers per process and pin them to the cores with the IDs of 3, 4, 5, and 6 respectively.

### Using oneCCL package from CMake

`oneCCLConfig.cmake` and `oneCCLConfigVersion.cmake` are included into oneCCL distribution.

With these files, you can integrate oneCCL into a user project with the [find_package](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/find_package.html) command. Successful invocation of `find_package(oneCCL <options>)` creates imported target `oneCCL` that can be passed to the [target_link_libraries](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/target_link_libraries.html) command.

For example:

```cmake
project(Foo)
add_executable(foo foo.cpp)

# Search for oneCCL
find_package(oneCCL REQUIRED)

# Connect oneCCL to foo
target_link_libraries(foo oneCCL)
```
#### oneCCLConfig files generation

To generate oneCCLConfig files for oneCCL package, use the provided [`cmake/scripts/config_generation.cmake`](/cmake/scripts/config_generation.cmake) file:

```
cmake [-DOUTPUT_DIR=<output_dir>] -P cmake/script/config_generation.cmake
```

### OS File Descriptors 

oneCCL uses [Level Zero IPC handles](https://spec.oneapi.io/level-zero/latest/core/PROG.html#memory-1) so that a process can access a memory allocation done by a different process. 
However, these IPC handles consume OS File Descriptors (FDs). As a result, to avoid running out of OS FDs, we recommend to increase the default limit of FDs in the system for applications running with oneCCL and GPU buffers. 

The number of FDs required is application-dependent, but the recommended limit is ``1048575``. This value can be modified with the ulimit command.  

## Governance

The oneCCL project is governed by the UXL Foundation and you can get involved in this project in multiple ways. It is possible to join the [Special Interest Groups (SIG)](https://github.com/uxlfoundation/foundation) meetings where the group discuss and demonstrates work using the foundation projects. Members can also join the Open Source and Specification Working Group meetings.

You can also join the mailing lists for the [UXL Foundation](https://lists.uxlfoundation.org/g/main/subgroups) to be informed of when meetings are happening and receive the latest information and discussions.

## Additional Resources

### Blog Posts

- [Optimizing DLRM by using PyTorch with oneCCL Backend](https://pytorch.medium.com/optimizing-dlrm-by-using-pytorch-with-oneccl-backend-9f85b8ef6929)
- [Intel MLSL Makes Distributed Training with MXNet Faster](https://medium.com/apache-mxnet/intel-mlsl-makes-distributed-training-with-mxnet-faster-7186ad245e81)

### Workshop Materials

- oneAPI, oneCCL and OFI: Path to Heterogeneous Architecure Programming with Scalable Collective Communications: [recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksiZ90EtP98&feature=youtu.be) and [slides](https://www.openfabrics.org/wp-content/uploads/2020-workshop-presentations/502.-OFA-Virtual-Workshop-2020-oneCCL-v5.pdf)

## Contribute <!-- omit in toc -->

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

## License <!-- omit in toc -->

Distributed under the Apache License 2.0 license. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more
information.

## Security Policy <!-- omit in toc -->

See [SECURITY](SECURITY.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Update README.md to provide notice of deprecation of legacy C++ API.

README.md, after:

# oneAPI Collective Communications Library (oneCCL) <!-- omit in toc --> <img align="right" width="200" height="100" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/uxlfoundation/artwork/e98f1a7a3d305c582d02c5f532e41487b710d470/foundation/uxl-foundation-logo-horizontal-color.svg">

[![OpenSSF Scorecard](https://api.scorecard.dev/projects/github.com/oneapi-src/oneCCL/badge)](https://scorecard.dev/viewer/?uri=github.com/oneapi-src/oneCCL)
[Installation](#installation)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Usage](#usage)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Release Notes](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/release-notes/oneapi-collective-communication-library-ccl-release-notes.html)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Documentation](https://oneapi-src.github.io/oneCCL/)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[How to Contribute](CONTRIBUTING.md)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[License](LICENSE)

oneAPI Collective Communications Library (oneCCL) provides an efficient implementation of communication patterns used in deep learning.

oneCCL is integrated into:
* [Horovod\*](https://github.com/horovod/horovod) (distributed training framework). Refer to [Horovod with oneCCL](https://github.com/horovod/horovod/blob/master/docs/oneccl.rst) for details.
* [PyTorch\*](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch) (machine learning framework). Refer to [PyTorch bindings for oneCCL](https://github.com/intel/torch-ccl) for details.

oneCCL is governed by the [UXL Foundation](http://www.uxlfoundation.org) and is an implementation of the [oneAPI specification](https://spec.oneapi.io).

## Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Launching Example Application](#launching-example-application)
    - [Using external MPI](#using-external-mpi)
  - [Setting workers affinity](#setting-workers-affinity)
    - [Automatic setup](#automatic-setup)
    - [Explicit setup](#explicit-setup)
  - [Using oneCCL package from CMake](#using-oneccl-package-from-cmake)
    - [oneCCLConfig files generation](#onecclconfig-files-generation)
- [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)
  - [Blog Posts](#blog-posts)
  - [Workshop Materials](#workshop-materials)
- [Notice of Deprecation](#notice-of-deprecation)
  
## Prerequisites 

See [System Requirements](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/system-requirements/oneapi-collective-communication-library-system-requirements.html) to learn about hardware and software requirements before getting started with oneCCL.

## Installation

General installation scenario:

```
cd oneCCL
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make -j install
```

If you need a clean build, create a new build directory and invoke `cmake` within it.

You can also do the following during installation:
- [Specify installation directory](INSTALL.md#specify-installation-directory)
- [Specify the compiler](INSTALL.md#specify-the-compiler)
- [Specify `SYCL` cross-platform abstraction level](INSTALL.md#specify-sycl-cross-platform-abstraction-level)
- [Specify the build type](INSTALL.md#specify-the-build-type)
- [Enable `make` verbose output](INSTALL.md#enable-make-verbose-output)

## Usage

### Launching Example Application

Use the command:
```bash
$ source <install_dir>/env/setvars.sh
$ mpirun -n 2 <install_dir>/examples/benchmark/benchmark
```

#### Using external mpi

The ccl-bundled-mpi flag in vars.sh can take values "yes" or "no" to control if bundled Intel MPI should be used or not. Current default is "yes", which means that oneCCL temporarily overrides the mpi implementation in use.

In order to suppress the behavior and use user-supplied or system-default mpi use the following command *instead* of sourcing `setvars.sh`:

```bash
$ source <install_dir>/env/vars.sh --ccl-bundled-mpi=no
```

The mpi implementation will not be overridden. Please note that, in this case, user needs to assure the system finds all required mpi-related binaries.

### Setting workers affinity

There are two ways to set worker threads (workers) affinity: [automatically](#setting-affinity-automatically) and [explicitly](#setting-affinity-explicitly).

#### Automatic setup

1. Set the `CCL_WORKER_COUNT` environment variable with the desired number of workers per process.
2. Set the `CCL_WORKER_AFFINITY` environment variable with the value `auto`.

Example:
```
export CCL_WORKER_COUNT=4
export CCL_WORKER_AFFINITY=auto
```
With the variables above, oneCCL will create four workers per process and the pinning will depend from process launcher.

If an application has been launched using `mpirun` that is provided by oneCCL distribution package then workers will be automatically pinned to the last four cores available for the launched process. The exact IDs of CPU cores can be controlled by `mpirun` parameters.

Otherwise, workers will be automatically pinned to the last four cores available on the node.

---

#### Explicit setup

1. Set the `CCL_WORKER_COUNT` environment variable with the desired number of workers per process.
2. Set the `CCL_WORKER_AFFINITY` environment variable with the IDs of cores to pin local workers.

Example:
```
export CCL_WORKER_COUNT=4
export CCL_WORKER_AFFINITY=3,4,5,6
```
With the variables above, oneCCL will create four workers per process and pin them to the cores with the IDs of 3, 4, 5, and 6 respectively.

### Using oneCCL package from CMake

`oneCCLConfig.cmake` and `oneCCLConfigVersion.cmake` are included into oneCCL distribution.

With these files, you can integrate oneCCL into a user project with the [find_package](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/find_package.html) command. Successful invocation of `find_package(oneCCL <options>)` creates imported target `oneCCL` that can be passed to the [target_link_libraries](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/target_link_libraries.html) command.

For example:

```cmake
project(Foo)
add_executable(foo foo.cpp)

# Search for oneCCL
find_package(oneCCL REQUIRED)

# Connect oneCCL to foo
target_link_libraries(foo oneCCL)
```
#### oneCCLConfig files generation

To generate oneCCLConfig files for oneCCL package, use the provided [`cmake/scripts/config_generation.cmake`](/cmake/scripts/config_generation.cmake) file:

```
cmake [-DOUTPUT_DIR=<output_dir>] -P cmake/script/config_generation.cmake
```

### OS File Descriptors 

oneCCL uses [Level Zero IPC handles](https://spec.oneapi.io/level-zero/latest/core/PROG.html#memory-1) so that a process can access a memory allocation done by a different process. 
However, these IPC handles consume OS File Descriptors (FDs). As a result, to avoid running out of OS FDs, we recommend to increase the default limit of FDs in the system for applications running with oneCCL and GPU buffers. 

The number of FDs required is application-dependent, but the recommended limit is ``1048575``. This value can be modified with the ulimit command.  

## Governance

The oneCCL project is governed by the UXL Foundation and you can get involved in this project in multiple ways. It is possible to join the [Special Interest Groups (SIG)](https://github.com/uxlfoundation/foundation) meetings where the group discuss and demonstrates work using the foundation projects. Members can also join the Open Source and Specification Working Group meetings.

You can also join the mailing lists for the [UXL Foundation](https://lists.uxlfoundation.org/g/main/subgroups) to be informed of when meetings are happening and receive the latest information and discussions.

## Additional Resources

### Blog Posts

- [Optimizing DLRM by using PyTorch with oneCCL Backend](https://pytorch.medium.com/optimizing-dlrm-by-using-pytorch-with-oneccl-backend-9f85b8ef6929)
- [Intel MLSL Makes Distributed Training with MXNet Faster](https://medium.com/apache-mxnet/intel-mlsl-makes-distributed-training-with-mxnet-faster-7186ad245e81)

### Workshop Materials

- oneAPI, oneCCL and OFI: Path to Heterogeneous Architecure Programming with Scalable Collective Communications: [recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ksiZ90EtP98&feature=youtu.be) and [slides](https://www.openfabrics.org/wp-content/uploads/2020-workshop-presentations/502.-OFA-Virtual-Workshop-2020-oneCCL-v5.pdf)

## Notice of Deprecation 

### Notice of Deprecation Of Existing C++ API
In oneCCL version 2021.17 included with the 2025.3 oneAPI release, oneCCL will add support for a new C API that closely follows the NCCL API standard. The existing C++ API will remain available, and will remain the default API for this release. Details explaining how an application may link against and use the new API will be shared in this release.

Please visit this [RFC](https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneCCL/tree/rfcs/rfcs/20240806-c-api) to view the proposed API and provide any feedback. 

In oneCCL version 2022.0 included with 2026.0 oneAPI release, oneCCL will use the new NCCL like C API by default. This is a breaking change. The legacy C++ API will remain available and details explaining how an application may link against the legacy API are forthcoming.

Please note that application use of both APIs at the same time is not supported.

Support for the legacy C++ API shall remain in the release until future notice. The schedule for legacy API removal will be announced here.

## Contribute <!-- omit in toc -->

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

## License <!-- omit in toc -->

Distributed under the Apache License 2.0 license. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more
information.

## Security Policy <!-- omit in toc -->

See [SECURITY](SECURITY.md) for more information.
